v0.21: Update asynchronous update page (#1046)
meilisearch/documentation: learn/advanced/asynchronous_updates.md

# Asynchronous updates

Index updates are processed **asynchronously**. This means that update requests are not handled as soon as they are received—instead, MeiliSearch places these operations in a queue and processes them in the order they were received.

## Which operations are async?

Every operation that might take a long time to be processed is handled asynchronously.

> For example, it is possible updating the `filterableAttributes` index setting will require as much time as generating a new index, so MeiliSearch puts it in the update queue and processes the update request as soon as the instance can allocate the adequate resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, updating the `filterableAttributes` index setting will require as much time as re-indexing all your documents from this index. Because of that MeiliSearch adds it in the update queue and processes the update request as soon as the instance can allocate the adequate resources.
```

> and processes the update request as soon as the instance can allocate the adequate resources

I'm not sure this is accurate. Is it not processed once no other updates in the index are being processed? @ManyTheFish

Author: ```suggestion
For example, updating the `filterableAttributes` index setting will require as much time as re-indexing all the documents in this index. Because of that, MeiliSearch adds your update request to the update queue and processes it as soon as possible.
```

Currently, these are MeiliSearch's asynchronous operations:

- Updating index settings
- Adding documents to an index
- Updating documents in an index
- Deleting documents from an index

## Update workflow

1. When you make an update request, MeiliSearch puts it in the update queue, sets the request `status` to `enqueued` and returns an `updateId`
2. When the queue reaches your update request, MeiliSearch begins processing it and changes the request `status` to `processing`
3. Once the update has been finalized, MeiliSearch marks it as `processed`, if it was successful, or `failed`, in case the update failed
4. Requests marked as `processed` are not deleted and will remain visible in [the operation list](/reference/api/updates.md#get-all-update-status)

> <mermaid>

Author: How do you feel about this flowchart? Do you think it adds something to users?

</mermaid>

### Dumps

While dumps and updates are both asynchronous processes, they use separate queues and behave differently. For instance, creating a new dump will freeze the update queue until the dump has been generated.

[You can read more about dumps in our dedicated guide.](/reference/features/dumps.md)

## Understanding updates

After you have requested an update, you can use the [update API endpoint](/reference/api/updates.md) to find out the status of your request. To do so, you will need your request's `updateId`.

### Response

The response you get from the [update API endpoint](/reference/api/updates.md) will always include the following fields:

- `status`: the state of the operation (`enqueued`, `processing`, `processed`, or `failed`)
- `updateId`: the id of the update
- `type`: the type of the operation, including its name and number
- `enqueuedAt`: the date when the operation was added to the queue

Updates marked as `processed` return additional fields:

- `duration`: the number of seconds taken to complete the operation
- `processedAt`: the date when the operation was processed

Finally, failed updates contain an extra `error` field:

> - `error`: a string describing [why the update failed](https://docs.meilisearch.com/errors/)

Reviewer: In case of an error all error fields are returned inside the returned body: 
```json
{
  "status": "failed", 
  //...
  "message": "Index movies not found",
  "errorCode": "index_not_found",
  "errorType": "invalid_request_error",
  "errorLink": "https://docs.meilisearch.com/errors#index_not_found"
}
```

    "name": "DocumentsAddition",
    "number": 19653
  },
  "enqueuedAt": "2019-12-07T21:10:07.607581330Z",
  "duration": 12.757581815,
  "processedAt": "2019-12-07T21:10:20.511525620Z"
}
```

Had the update failed, the response would have included an error message:

```json
{
  "status": "failed",
  "updateId": 1,
  "type": {
    "name": "DocumentsAddition",

>     "number": 19653

Reviewer: `number` is not returned when status is `enqueued`, `processing` or `failed`
